What is it?
Why will I buy the Hyundai Verna diesel?
For its extremely torquey engine, bucket load of features and new-found ride and handling balance.

Why will I avoid the Hyundai Verna diesel?
Lack of rear legroom.

The Hyundai Verna has been around for a long time now. With 3.18 lakh units sold in India and with over 8.8 million customers worldwide, it’s safe to say that the Verna is one of Hyundai’s most popular sedans and not without a reason. The car across all its generations was known to be extremely comfortable, offering plenty of features and very good value for money. The new car promises to offer all that more.

Styling-wise the Verna is a good looking sedan. Hyundai has made sure it hasn’t taken an ultra radical approach to design. According to Hyundai, being too bold also runs the risk of the car ageing too soon and as a result you have the new Verna balancing it out between radical and conservative. The silhouette is quite similar to the earlier car but look closely and the new details come through. The front now gets the new family face that you see in the Xcent and the Elantra thanks to the chrome cascade grille. Now the thing is that the front bumper also gets a very aggressive chin spoiler and splits the air dam from the grille. The transition from the grille to the air dam could have been executed better. This is the only area which does not blend well. The swept back projector headlamps are now smaller than before and also get LED DRL’s which is the norm these days.  

The side profile is brought to life with the 5-spoke 16-inch alloy wheels which get kind of a gunmetal grey finish. They really stand out giving the car a sporty appeal. Unlike its Japanese competition you don’t see too many cuts and creases for additional drama. Can’t say the same about the rear though, which has plenty of visual drama and is pretty much the best angle of the new Verna. It’s tightly designed with a lip spoiler and a faux diffuser adding the sporty elements and the split type LED taillamps with LED guides adding a premium appeal. The new Verna then isn’t a ground breaking car when it comes to design, but its good looking car that is sure to be hated by none.

 If there’s one manufacturer who knows how to liven up the interiors, its Hyundai and the new Verna is no different. You get a dual tone dashboard and thankfully there’s more of black than beige. Hyundai has made sure it offers a driver centric layout and as a result everything falls to hand easily. The whole dashboard however we think takes up a lot of space and it could have been designed to generate more room in the front. Also the dash gets hard plastics and Hyundai could have given it a soft touch feel to make it more premium. 

The driver seats are extremely comfortable and adjusting it to ones preference takes no time at all and more importantly are ventilated which is a segment first. Nothing like a cooled seat on a hot day. The steering feel feels great and is just the right size. The buttons work and feel good but lack the tactile feel of the Germans.

The big news up front is the new infotainment system. Staring at you in the centre is a 7-inch IPS capacitive touch-screen AVN which comes with Apple Carplay, Android Auto and Mirror Link for seamless integration of app based navigation, streaming audio, voice controlled search capabilities and smart phone applications.  It also gets 6 speakers along with Smart Surround Sytem by Arkamys and it does sound the part. Another first from Hyundai is the Eco Coating Technology which prevents unpleasant smell to develop in the AC Evaporator by degrading the micro-organisms developed in the AC Evaporator Core. How well this works will have to be seen over a prolonged duration.

Moving to the back, the seats are pretty comfy. Under thigh support is average at best, but what won’t make it comfortable is the legroom. The legroom at the back is just about average and more so when you have a tall driver behind the wheel. Compared to its immediate rival, the Honda City, the Verna does fall short here. Legroom aside there is plenty of storage and you even get a USB charging port at the back. And you get rear ac vents and a manual rear windscreen blind. Boot space at 480 litres is up over the earlier car and also gets a hands free smart trunk that will allow the passengers or the drivers to open the fifth door just by waving at the sensor. 