Popular Korean car manufacturer, Hyundai has updated the Elite i20 range in India. The premium hatchback is available in four variants - Era, Magna Plus, Sportz Plus and Asta (O). The latest model continues to be powered by existing petrol and diesel engine options while changes are limited to cosmetic upgrades. The Hyundai Elite i20 competes against the Maruti Suzuki Baleno, the Honda Jazz and the Volkswagen Polo in the premium hatchback segment in the Indian car market.

Engine and gearbox

The Elite i20 gets the same petrol and diesel engines from the previous car. The petrol is a four-cylinder 1.2-litre Kappa engine producing 83bhp and 113Nm of torque mated to a five-speed manual gearbox. Instead of the 1.4-litre automatic, Hyundai will add a CVT to the 1.2-litre mill which will make the petrol-automatic efficient as well as affordable. The diesel variant is powered by the 1.4-litre CRDI mill churning out 89bhp and 219Nm of torque mated to a six-speed manual gearbox.

Exterior

The body shell is the same as its predecessor, but the bumpers, both fore and aft are all-new. While the headlamps and tail lamps haven’t changed much in their shapes, the internals have been completely reworked for a fresh look. The stance is forward leaning and thanks to the flared wheel arches the car now looks more modern and sportier than ever. Moreover, Magna Plus and above variants get chrome grille along with LED DRLs near the fog lamps.

Interior

The Elite i20 is feature rich from inside which is a norm for all Hyundai cars now. The cabin now looks better with the redesigned dashboard in beige-black combination. The Elite i20 gets all the features like automatic climate control, rear AC vents, all-four power windows, electrically adjustable wing mirrors et al. While we are yet to see if it gets the distance to empty and average fuel consumption read outs on the MFD, it does get an in-built service reminder.

The three-spoke steering wheel gets integrated audio and Bluetooth controls. It gets height adjustable driver’s seat, 2-DIN touchscreen audio system, climate control system, cooled glovebox, cruise control, reverse parking assist, gear shift indicator and electro-chromatic rear view mirror. The top-end Asta features automatic headlights, rear wash and wipe, clutch lock and a second power outlet. The boot capacity at 285 litres is the second best in the segment after the Polo which has a capacity of 294 litres. In terms of safety, you have dual front airbags, rear parking sensors, central locking, ABS and EBD as standard across the range while the top-spec i20 offers six airbags as well