Who We Are

Hyundai Motor India Limited (HMIL) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Hyundai Motor Company (HMC). HMIL is the second largest car manufacturer and the number one car exporter since inception in India. It currently has nine car models across segments – SANTRO, GRAND i10, ELITE i20, ACTIVE i20, XCENT, VERNA, ELANTRA, CRETA & TUCSON. HMIL’s fully integrated state-of-the-art manufacturing plant near Chennai boasts advanced production, quality and testing capabilities.

HMIL forms a critical part of HMC’s global export hub. It currently exports to around 88 countries across Africa, Middle East, Latin America, Australia and Asia Pacific. To support its growth and expansion plans, HMIL currently has 493 dealers and more than 1,309 service points across India. In its commitment to provide customers with cutting-edge global technology, Hyundai has a modern multi-million dollar R&D facility in Hyderabad. The R&D centre endeavours to be a center of excellence in automobile engineering.


Research & Development Center

Hyundai Motor Company established Hyundai Motor India Engineering (HMIE) in November 2006. HMIE is an only R&D Center in India, sited in Hi-tech city region of Hyderabad, Telangana State. Often referred to as India’s Silicon Valley, Hyderabad is the IT hub of India, hosting home for leading international IT companies.

HMIE is a center with one of the most advanced research and development facilities which focuses on state of the art product, design engineering and rigorous quality enhancement. It plays an important role leading to the development of new car models for key emerging markets globally including India. Now the center enlist around 800 engineers, who are well trained on business acumen, technical and personal development which made them as smart engineers designing elegant cars. HMIE engineers extend their master support in accomplishing all the projects with great zeal and smart work.

HMIE has contributed to the development of Hyundai Motor’s global cars and played a major role in popular models for the Indian market starting with the EON and followed now by the “I” series and also in SUV segments like Creta. HMIE shine in domains of process automations, design analysis, electronics & software development functions. 

HMIE supports Hyundai Motor Head Quarters, Namyang, South Korea and Hyundai Motor India Limited, Chennai, India, in areas of Research & Development services, along with support in the Power Train, Design Development, Evaluation and Certification Activities and Plant Design Modification.

Hyundai Motor Company’s other overseas R&D centers are located in the United States, Germany, Korea and China.